                                                Basics of Python

Q-1: What is Programming Language?
A programming language is a formal set of instructions and rules that humans use to communicate with computers — telling them what to do.

Think of it like this:
                 computers only understand binary (0s and 1s), but programming languages give us a more human-readable way to write instructions, which are then translated into something the machine can execute.

Some key aspects:

What it does:-
         It lets you write programs — sequences of instructions that perform tasks like calculations, displaying text, processing data, or controlling hardware.

How it works:
         You write code in the language, and a compiler or interpreter translates it into machine code the computer can run.

Examples:
         Python, JavaScript, Java, C++, Swift, and hundreds more — each designed with different strengths and use cases in mind.

Why so many exist?
Different languages are better suited for different tasks. Python is great for data science, JavaScript powers web browsers, C is used for operating systems, and so on.

In short, programming languages are the bridge between human thinking and machine execution — they let us build websites, apps, games, AI systems, and essentially all modern software. Sonnet 4.6

Q2- High Level Programming Language Vs Low Level Programming Language.

High Level Programming Language:-
A high-level language is closer to human language (English-like) and abstracts away the complex details of the computer's hardware.

Characteristics:

1. Easy to read, write, and understand
2. Automatically manages memory
3. Less control over hardware
4. Slower execution compared to low-level
5. Requires a compiler or interpreter to convert to machine code
6. Platform independent (mostly)

Examples: Python, Java, JavaScript, Ruby, PHP, C#
Example code (Python):
pythonprint("Hello, World!")

Low Level Programming Language:-
A low-level language is closer to machine language and directly interacts with the computer's hardware.
Two types:

Machine Language — pure binary (0s and 1s), directly executed by CPU
Assembly Language — uses short codes (mnemonics) like MOV, ADD, SUB

Characteristics:

1. Hard to read and write
2. Manual memory management
3. Full control over hardware
4. Very fast execution
5. Machine dependent (not portable)

Example code (Assembly):
asmMOV AX, 1
ADD AX, 2


